This website is designed to tackle the the insistence of reviving the dead script Baybayin. We're gonna look into why it's not a good replacement to the current writing system most commonly used by Filipinos, Tagalog, and how Tagalog is really the better language to use. 

Baybayin is a pre-Spanish writing system used in the Philippines. It is a part of the Brahmic family and has been recorded to be used during the 16th century. 

The term "Baybay" literally means "to spell" in Tagalog. It is one of the ways to write Tagalog. Tagalog is one the Philippine's languages and is mostly spoken in Central and parts of Northern Luzon, but Baybayin also gave birth to other scripts that was used in other parts of the Philippines. According to Mandirigma.org (1999), there are a number of scripts that came from Baybayin, namely Hanunó’o, Buhid, Tagbanwa, Kapampangan script and the Bisaya script.


Modern scripts in the Philippines, descended from Baybayin, are Hanunó’o, Buhid, Tagbanwa, the Kapampangan script and the Bisaya script. Baybayin is one of a dozen or so individual writing systems used in Southeast Asia, nearly all of which are abugidas where any consonant is pronounced with the inherent vowel a following it— diacritical marks being used to express other vowels (this vowel occurs with greatest frequency in Sanskrit, and also probably in all Philippine languages).

According to Mandirigma.org (1999), there are a number of scripts that came from Baybayin, namely Hanunó’o, Buhid, Tagbanwa, Kapampangan script and the Bisaya script.

Death
Baybayin was widely used in the country before the Spanish conquest until 1668 when the script forms were removed from the Doctrina Christiana publications. The adeptness of the Filipino men and women in Baybayin writing was mentioned in the Boxer of Codex of 1590. 

Today, efforts are being made to promote the script across the country. The National Museum and Commission on Culture and Arts have devoted areas in their offices to showcase the written forms. Taklobo Baybayin Group, Mangyan Heritage Center, Lucban Historical Society and schools like La COnsolacion College (Bacolod) and  Bucan Grande in Surigao have been active in patronizing and promoting the written forms of Baybayin. The government also made an effort to revive Baybayin through House Bill 1022 or the proposed "National Writing System Act". The measure seeks to declare Baybayin as the national writing system, generating greater awareness on the plight of Baybayin and foster wider appreciation on its importance and beauty.

When we look at the reasons that people say when asked why it should be revived, one of the reasons is that it should be revived since it is part of the Filipino identity. According to Demegillo of Sagisag.com (2019), it is part of our history and learning Baybayin is also learning more about how our ancestors communicated. Another reason is that our current writing system came from the colonizers instead of originating from us. Learning baybayin will serve as an antidote for a nation grappling with its colonial past as stated by France-Presse (2019).

I do think that it's important to keep Bayabyin alive and actually preserve it, but this doesn't mean that we have to make it our new writing system in replacement of our current modern one. I'm not against in reviving Baybayin, I think it's really important that everyone learns about this, but the practicality of it is the real question. Would it really be practical for everyone to relearn a new writing system, to replace our current one just because it's a way to identify as a Filipino and because it's a part of our culture? 

Even if it's nice to have a writing system that was created by our ancestors, I just think that the disadvantages outweigh the benefits. According to France-Presse of Inquirer (2019), it has been said that such replacement of our national writing system would only be useful to those who speak Tagalog and will result in the overshadowing of other languages in the Philippines. Baybayin is not the only indigenous writing system found in the Philippines, so why is there a need to nationalize it? It's a similar situation during the drafting of the 1935 constitution where Tagalog was selected as the basis of the national language. This caused uproar from people that did not speak Tagalog. It seemed like the only language that mattered was Tagalog, and not their own language.

Tagalog
Tagalog is a language that is spoken by many Filipinos. Most people that speak Tagalog are from region of Luzon. According to Dynamic Language, it is one of the first languages most Filipinos learn and more than 50 million Filipinos speak Tagalog.

According to Language Star, Tagalog was derived from the words "taga-ilog", which means from the river. Tagalog was also influenced by mainly our colonizers, and the Malays and Chinese. During the colonial period of Spain, Tagalog's writing system was changed from Baybayin into the Roman alphabet, which is what's mainly used in present time.

During the drafting of the 1935 constitution, Tagalog was declared as the national language of the Philippines. This decision caused uproar from those who speak other languages beside Tagalog. That is why the national language was later changed to Filipino, where it generalizes all the language into one language that a Flipino speaks.

This is one of the reasons why we can't change our current writing system for something that is mainly derived from speaking Tagalog. There are many more languages in the Philippines, and apart from the languages, more writing systems besides Baybayin. Making Baybayin the national writing system will also pose a challenge since everyone in the country must now adapt to the new writing system in a time where English is also heavily used by many Filipinos.

